#summary Overview of what's new in the 0.9 beta

Version *0.9* of *gwt-cal* is a major release that required some big changes to it's underlying structure in order to accommodate the following features:
  # Displaying appointments in multiple views (i.e. `DayView` and `MonthView`) and seamlessly switch between them
  # Allowing a developer to create their own custom `CalendarView`
  # Displaying an appointment as multiple panels on the screen. This was required for the `MonthView`, where an appointment can span the 1st week and 2nd week of the month. This means an appointment must be displayed as two panels. Previously there was a one-to-one relationship between an appointment and a panel. Now this is a one-to-many relationship.

We also laid the ground work for *Drag and Drop* support, one of the most requested features. Right now Drag and Drop is supported in the `MonthView`, with plans to support the `DayView` in the 0.9.1 release.

*[http://code.google.com/p/gwt-cal/downloads/detail?name=gwt-cal-0.9.0-beta1.jar Download version 0.9 beta1 now]*

= 0.9 Beta Summary =

  * Added support for multiple views (`MonthView`, `DayView`, etc)
    * `Calendar` facade class to easily switch between views
    * Ability to create and set custom views

  * `MonthView` includes `DragDrop` support using gwt-dnd
    * Added new `UpdateEvent` to notify when an appointment is dragged and updated
    * Ability to 'undo' the update
  
  * Appointment class is now a plain java object. No longer extends a gwt Widget
  * Appointments in the `DayView` can now display custom HTML in the description area
  * Fixed issue 11 - Switching appointments with arrow keys past last appointment causes crash
  * Added unit tests to a number of classes (finally)
  * Upgraded project to use gwt 1.7

= Known Issues =

  * `MonthView` Appointment styles don't display the correct colors in IE6 and IE7
  * `MonthView` Appointments sometimes don't layout correctly and overlap eachother
  * `MultiDay` appointments are not calculated. User must set `appointment.setMultiDay(true)`
  * i18n is not supported for the date labels in the DayView or MonthView, see issue 18